{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mangal;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset1 Mangal;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af3\dbch\af4\afs28\loch\f2\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sb0\sa120 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sb0\sa120\dbch\af5 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af5\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af5 Index;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2014\mo2\dy2\hr23\min31}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern4000}}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Indledning}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Super Mario video game series is a series of platform video games created by Nintendo featuring their mascot, Mario. Alternatively called the Super Mario Bros. series or simply the Mario series, it is the central series of the greater Mario franchise. At least one Super Mario game has been released for every major Nintendo video game console and handheld.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Super Mario games follow Mario's adventures in the fictional Mushroom Kingdom, usually with Mario as the player character. He is occasionally joined by his brother, Luigi, and other members of the Mario cast. As in platform video games, the player runs and jumps across platforms and atop enemies in themed levels. The games have simple plots, typically with Mario rescuing the kidnapped Princess Peach from the primary antagonist, Bowser. The first title in the series, the 1985 Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) release of Super Mario Bros., established gameplay concepts and elements prevalent in nearly every Super Mario game since, including a multitude of power-ups and items that give Mario special powers like fireball-throwing and size-changing into giant and miniature sizes.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Super Mario series is part of the greater Mario franchise, which includes other video game genres as well as media such as film, television, printed media and merchandise. Over 262 million copies of games in the Super Mario series have been sold worldwide, making it the best-selling video game franchise.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mario}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Shigeru Miyamoto created Mario while developing Donkey Kong in an attempt to produce a best-selling video game for Nintendo; previous titles like Sheriff had not achieved the same success as titles like Pac-Man. Originally, Miyamoto wanted to create a video game that used the characters Popeye, Bluto, and Olive Oyl.[4] At the time, however, Miyamoto was unable to acquire a license to use the characters (and would not until 1982), so he ended up making Jumpman (later known as Mario), Donkey Kong, and Pauline. In the early stages of Donkey Kong, Mario was unable to jump, and the focus was to escape a maze. However, Miyamoto enabled Mario to jump, saying "If you had a barrel rolling towards you, what would you do?"}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Miyamoto originally named the character "Mr. Video", and he was to be used in every video game Miyamoto developed. According to a widely circulated story, during localization of Donkey Kong for North American audiences, Nintendo of America's warehouse landlord Mario Segale confronted its then-president Minoru Arakawa, demanding back rent. Following a heated argument in which the Nintendo employees eventually convinced Segale he would be paid, they opted to name the character in the game Mario after him}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Miyamoto commented that if he had named Mario "Mr. Video", Mario likely would have "disappeared off the face of the Earth." By Miyamoto's own account, Mario's profession was chosen to fit with the game design. Since Donkey Kong was set on a construction site, Mario was made into a carpenter. When he appeared again in Mario Bros., it was decided he should be a plumber, since a lot of the game is played in underground settings}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Yoshi}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Yoshi has a variety of abilities that make him stand out amongst other characters in the Mario series. He has a prehensile tongue that can extend a surprising distance, allowing him to eat almost anything; anything that can't be eaten can be spit out at enemies. In some games the tongue can also be used as a grappling hook to pull objects or access otherwise out-of-reach areas. Yoshi is also capable of laying distinctive spotted eggs after swallowing objects, which can then be thrown at enemies or objects; eggs are in fact the primary "logo" of Yoshi in multiplayer games. Yoshi is also capable of forming an egg around himself and rolling around. By rapidly flapping his arms and legs, Yoshi can hover in midair or even gain height (depending on the game), this "flutter jump" makes difficult jumps much easier to accomplish. Yoshi is also a heavy user of the ground pound, dropping from the air onto targets. Yoshi's large nose allows him to detect hidden collectibles by smell, and aside from kicks and tail whips, is Yoshi's main instrument of close-range combat.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Yoshis come in a variety of colours, including green, red, blue, yellow, cyan, pink, purple, black, white, orange, and brown. In some games the colour of a Yoshi provides additional abilities: in Super Mario World, red Yoshis can breathe fire, blue Yoshis have wings, and yellow Yoshis produce damaging dust clouds on landing. In other games, eating fruit changes a Yoshi's colour and provides an ability; Yoshis in Super Mario Sunshine can spit fruit juice to defeat enemies and create platforms, while those in Super Mario Galaxy 2 can use fruit to gain super speed, inflate like a balloon, or produce a platform-enabling glow. Yoshis of various colours appear often in multiplayer games as alternate choices, which may or may not have tweaked stats.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Toad}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Toad and the mushroom people were first seen in the game Super Mario Bros. where the species was revealed to comprise the majority of the population of the Mushroom Kingdom. Toad's design was made directly from the power up the Super Mushroom, as well as the game's general association with mushrooms.Shigeru Miyamoto, the creator of the Mario franchise, reasons that Toad's creation was that of being a character that has a simplistic design; yet, still appears cute and lovely and pleasing to everybody. In the game, the peaceful Toads of the Mushroom Kingdom had been turned into various objects such as bricks and pipes by the evil King Bowser; however, some of Princess Toadstool's loyal servants, known as the "Mushroom Retainers," were simply kidnapped.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
During the development of New Super Mario Bros. Wii, the developers at Nintendo decided between four characters to be playable in the game: Princess Peach, Toad, Wario and Waluigi (all suggestions made by fans).Two Toads (Yellow and Blue) were eventually included as playable characters in New Super Mario Bros. Wii due to their physical similarity to Mario and Luigi.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af4\afs24\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1030{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Toad's English name appears to have been inspired by the word "toadstool", a word used to describe mushrooms including those featuring umbrella-like cap-and-stem form characteristics which Toad's design portrays along with the character's general resemblance to a mushroom. Toad's Japanese name "Kinopio" appears to be a mixture of the Japanese word for mushroom ("kinoko") and the Japanese name for the character Pinocchio ("Pinokio") which both roughly blend together to form the meaning of "a real mushroom boy" (as evidenced through Pinocchio's desire to become a real boy in his own tale)}
\par }